As a system collecting, using, and disclosing highly sensitive data such as satellite imagery, GPS data, personal information for investigations, and credentials and certificates for users, data security is a critical need for the users of the system. If collected data is not secured, adversaries such as perpetrators or and/or cyber criminals will steal and manipulate this data to avoid fines and prosecution, circumventing the legal system and allowing illegal fishing activity to continue. This would be a detrimental consequence not only to the reporting system and the stakeholders, but also to local communities and ecosystems. 

Security threats that would most likely affect the reporting system include malware, denial-of-services attacks, phishing, and identity-based attacks. On a broader scale, the Joint Venture System Administrator explicitly emphasizes that advanced encryption and access controls will be in place to ensure confidentiality and data security. In regards to protecting satellite imagery and geospatial data from unauthorized access, the CEO of the Joint Venture Satellite Company said “We typically do this by requiring that all of our data needs to be accessed using specific credentials and certificates and that when we ship data it’s encrypted.” They also must protect this data complying with relevant data privacy laws and regulations. 

## Encryption
Encryption must be implemented to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive satellite, GPS, and personal data during storage and transfer. The most updated encryption standard, AES (Advanced Encryption Standards) is the most optimal choice for the reporting system as it will be fast and efficient for the massive amount of data that the system will transfer and store. AES involves a public key that encrypts the data and is available to everyone but requires a private key to decrypt the message held by an intended recipient (specific users of the system). Through this type of encryption, it will be difficult for adversaries to interpret or manipulate the data as it’s being transmitted as they would need to have the private key to decrypt the data. The private keys should only be used by those with a need-to-know for the sensitive data (i.e. data analysts, data engineers, system administrators, chief prosecutors) to limit access to the data and prevent unintentional or intentional security holes for adversaries to take advantage of.	

## Access Controls
Access controls are crucial for the security of the system as it will guarantee efficient resource allocation for user permissions and tighten access to sensitive data. 

## Full access 
The System Administrators at the Joint Venture will have full access to the reporting system’s data as they will need to constantly monitor, manage, and protect the data. Data Engineers will also need to have a high level of access control as they will closely work with the system administrators to ensure that the infrastructure and data pipelines are robust, secure, and work efficiently. 
 
## Partial access 
Chief Prosecutors and Data Analysts will have less access to the system controls than the system administrators and data engineers but will still require full access to the sensitive data to gather and aggregate evidence, create visualizations, and collaborate to make cases for prosecuting perpetrators. 

## Limited access
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the company providing satellite imagery and the Chief Sustainability Officers require the least amount of access to the system and sensitive data as their roles don’t require them to be involved with directly managing the system or analyzing and manipulating the data. The CEO of the company providing satellite imagery will be involved in the managerial aspects of the satellite imagery technology and won’t be concerned with the data itself unless the company isn’t compliant with relevant privacy laws. The Chief Sustainability Officers should have access to the data for sustainability reporting, but they can work with the data analysts to provide these insights. 

To combat each type of attack (malware, denial-of-service, phishing, and identity-based), they must be addressed by specific methods and protocols. Malware can be combated by regular security updates and assessments managed by the system administrators, software developers, and cybersecurity professionals consisting of a blue team (incident response and maintaining internal network) and red team (simulated adversary) that can work together to find vulnerabilities in the system. Denial-of-service attacks can be prevented by having the data engineers include a service that can regularly monitor and detect irregularities in network traffic. They also must work with the system administrators to ensure that a backup and recovery plan is in place in the event of this type of attack. Phishing can be prevented by training all users of the system to identify spam and fake accounts/messages. Identity-based attacks can be prevented with multi-factor authentication and role-based access controls as they can limit an adversary’s chances of stealing credentials and gaining access to the system. 
