Illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU) is one of the biggest threats to the sustainability of the fishing industry. (Pew Charitable Trust, 2023) states that illegal fishing accounts for at least 1 in 5 fish caught, and this ends up costing coastal nations an estimated $10 to $25 billion dollars a year. (Schiffman, R., Robbins, J., & Gardiner, B., 2024) also stated that 75% of all fishing vessels go untracked, in which many IUU fishing vessels turn off their transponders. This huge amount of IUU fishing puts a strain on the ecosystem, as a portion of those illegal fishing vessels might fish in protected areas. Even though the majority of IUU fishing is in Asia, it is a global problem as IUU fishing puts a strain on global food security, economic security, and law abiding fishermen or fishing companies (Fisheries). As IUU fishing continues, there exists a need for a system that globally and consistently identifies and tracks IUU fishing (The Pew Charitable Trust, 2017). 

To address these issues, a joint venture was established in 2020 named Oceans Guardian United (OGU). Comprising of nonprofit organizations and fishing companies, OGU's goal is to eliminate IUU fishing. Currently, OGU has many systems focused on reducing IUU fishing, but three systems are firmly targeted at reducing IUU fishing. 

Firstly, the Vessel Database, which stores fishing vessel information that identifies each vessel. (Sturman, 2024) This system is continuously updated by collaborating with other parties, but this database does not store information about ship movement and cannot be used to track ships doing IUU fishing. 

Secondly, the RFID System, in which fish are tagged and tracked until they hit the market, lets OGU know the legitimacy of the fishing activity. (Sturman, 2024) This system is very effective in determining products of IUU fishing, but the effectiveness of RFID relies on widespread adoption; if only certain regions adopt it, there could exist gaps in coverage. 

Lastly, OGU has a Fish Stock Management System, this system aims on tracking the stock of fishes in real-time, using data sources like fishery observers, fishing logs, and underwater sonars. (Sturman, 2024). Similar to the RFID system, the effectiveness of this system can be questioned depending on what areas receive coverage, as areas with limited infrastructure may be prone to little or no coverage. Each of these systems play an important role in supporting OGU's mission to reduce and eliminate IUU fishing.
