## Scalability Needs
The system must be highly modular, have good performance, high availability, and low fault. The system will be tracking many fishing boats, utilizing geospatial data, and drone surveillance. This means that the system will contain a vast amount of data and growing. Thus it is important that the response time of the server are linear for example 50 users might see a response time of 500ms (InformIT, 2002). Since we will be storing large amounts of data and want to keep downtimes on a minimum we should not go with vertical scaling as there is a single point of failure when you only have one machine as your server (nOps, 2023). Rather if we go with horizontal scaling it will enhance our flexibility as more than one machine will increase our workload and decrease downtime, but horizontal scaling is more costly than vertical (nOps, 2023). Load testing would be used to assess the system performance and server request time as the load increases, using tools like LoadNinja we could measure our load handling performance (LoadNinja). Our system should have a disaster recovery as the system and data is critical for the joint venture. A tool like AWS disaster recovery could be used, in which we could have weekly scheduled backups (Ready.gov).

## Availability Needs
Realistically our system should not be able to hit 100% availability due to needing maintenance. It is achievable to hit 99.9% uptime, though systems that are not critical can hit 99%, our system is critical so we should look to be able to keep a 99.9% uptime (Williams, 2023). The higher we go with the uptime the more expensive and complex it gets (Williams, 2023). Nonetheless, to achieve an uptime of 99.9% we should follow certain guidelines and practices. Firstly we should make sure all our system software is up to date to prevent cyber attacks that might bring the system down (Williams, 2023). We also should inspect our hardware and replace any hardware that might fail due to age and faultiness, this can be crucial to maintaining your uptime (Williams, 2023). Having a recovery tool for data can drastically reduce our downtime due to disasters (William, 2023).

## Interoperability Needs
Our system must be able to seamlessly import and export data in a standard format to allow integration with other IT systems. Also, the system should be able to integrate with a large range of data sources like video, images, and map data. The system should be able to host secure data sharing and collaboration among different stakeholders like government officials, nonprofit organizations, and fishing companies. The system’s cloud infrastructure should be compatible with the cloud infrastructure of the joint venture. Since we will be utilizing satellite imagery we should be able to support geotiffs file formats for georeferenced images. Shapefiles should be supported by the system as these vector based data formats are used to store and display data on maps. We should also support WMS services as they will be used to request map images from a remote server, and then can be display using GIS tools. 

## Sustainability Goals and Needs
The entire system from hardware to energy consumption should be sustainable. The system should be cost-effective to reduce our overall carbon footprint. The core value of the joint venture requires us to be sustainable, as the existence of the joint venture is meant to reduce IUU fishing. We should track metrics by following sustainability KPIs, in which we would reduce our projected kWh by using sensors or software to measure our energy consumption (Toikka, 2023). Since the joint venture is a combined effort we should adhere to the UN code of conduct, as well as comply with local sustainability laws (Toikka, 2023).  
