The reporting system must comply with laws and regulations from areas such as data privacy and collection from the GDPR. The European Union’s GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) lays regulations onto organizations that target or collect data related to people in the EU. The reporting system will be collecting global tracking and personal data, so it must comply with the standards detailed in the GDPR regarding collection, use, and disclosure of the data. 
The reporting system should comply with the GDPR laws such as Article 5 - Principles relating to the processing of personal data, Article 25 - Data protection by design and by default, and Article 32 - Security of processing. The relevant pieces of regulation that the system must follow from each article include: 
- **Article 5** - Principles relating to processing of personal data. Personal data should only be collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes; adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary for the reasons it is being collected, and accurate and kept up to date where necessary. This means that the system should be limited to collecting GPS, satellite, and personal data that is necessary for the users to carry out legitimate activities - reporting IUU fishing, and that it must be accurate and updated if necessary. 
- **Article 25** - Data protection by design and by default. The data controller should at the time of developing the means for processing and at the time of the processing itself, implement appropriate technical and organizational measures. These measures include that by default, only personal data necessary for each purpose of processing are processed and it won’t be distributed to people without an individual's intervention. 
- **Article 32** - Security of processing. The data controller and processor of the system should implement security measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk
1. “Pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;”
1. “Ability to ensure ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services;” 
1. “Ability to restore availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical accident;”
4. “Process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures for ensuring the security of the processing” 

This article is crucial to defining the security measures that the security specialist, data analyst, data engineer, and system administrator must take to ensure that the data remains secure when transferring, using, and communicating and disclosing the data to the Chief Prosecutor and other stakeholders. 
